# Portfolio_1
 Bootstrap Containers

Containers are the most basic layout element in Bootstrap and are required when using the grid system. Containers are basically used to wrap content with some padding. They are also used to align the content horizontally center on the page in case of fixed width layout. Bootstrap provides three different types containers: .container, which has a max-width at each responsive breakpoint. .container-fluid, which has 100% width at all breakpoints. .container-{breakpoint}, which has 100% width until the specified breakpoint. The table below illustrates how each container's max-width changes across each breakpoint. For example, when using the .container class the actual width of the container will be 100% if the viewport width is <576px, 540px if the viewport width is ≥576px but <768px, 720px if the viewport width is ≥768px but <992px, 960px if the viewport width is ≥992px but <1200px, 1140px if the viewport width is ≥1200px but <1400px, and 1320px if the viewport width is ≥1400px. You can simply use the .container class to create a responsive, fixed-width container. The width of the container will change at different breakpoints or screen sizes. You can use the .container-fluid class to create a full width container. The width of the fluid container will always be 100% irrespective of the devices or screen sizes.

• Bootstrap Grid System

Bootstrap grid system provides an easy and powerful way to create responsive layouts of all shapes and sizes. It is built with flexbox with mobile-first approach. Also, it is fully responsive and uses twelve column system (12 columns available per row) and six default responsive tiers. Features Bootstrap Grid System X-Small (xs) <576px Small (sm) ≥576px Medium (md) ≥768px Large (lg) ≥992px X-Large (xl) ≥1200px XX-Large (xxl) ≥1400px Container max-width None (auto) 540px 720px 960px 1140px 1320px Class prefix .col- .col-sm- .col-md- .col-lg- .col-xl- .col-xxl- Number of columns 12 Gutter width 1.5rem (.75rem on left and right) Custom gutters Yes Nestable Yes Column ordering Yes

• Bootstrap Responsive Layout

Responsive web design is a process of designing and building websites to provide better accessibility and optimal viewing experience to the user by optimizing it for different devices. With the growing trend of smart phones and tablets, it has become almost unavoidable to ignore the optimization of sites for mobile devices. Responsive web design is a preferable alternative and an efficient way to target a wide range of devices with much less efforts. Responsive layouts automatically adjust and adapts to any device screen size, whether it is a desktop, a laptop, a tablet, or a mobile phone. Bootstrap Forms HTML forms are an integral part of the web pages and applications, but creating the form layouts or styling the form controls manually one by one using CSS are often boring and tedious. Bootstrap greatly simplifies the process of styling and alignment of form controls like labels, input fields, selectboxes, textareas, buttons, etc. through predefined set of classes.
